---
layout: paper
title: "RoboMIND: Benchmark on Multi-embodiment Intelligence Normative Data for Robot Manipulation"
invisible: true
prev_id: "151"
next_id: "153"
---
<div class="paper-authors">
  <div class="paper-author-box">
    <div class="paper-author-name">Kun Wu, Chengkai Hou, Jiaming Liu, Zhengping Che, Xiaozhu Ju, Zhuqin Yang, Meng Li, Yinuo Zhao, Zhiyuan Xu, Guang Yang, Shichao Fan, Xinhua Wang, Fei Liao, Zhen Zhao, Guangyu Li, Zhao Jin, Lecheng Wang, Jilei Mao, Ning Liu, Pei Ren, Qiang Zhang, Yaoxu Lyu, Mengzhen Liu, He Jingyang, Yulin Luo, Zeyu Gao, Chenxuan Li, Chenyang Gu, Yankai Fu, Di Wu, Xingyu Wang, Sixiang Chen, Zhenyu Wang, Pengju An, Siyuan Qian, Shanghang Zhang, Jian Tang</div>
    <div class="paper-author-uni"></div>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="paper-pdf-modern">
  <div class="paper-menu-icon">
    <a href="https://www.roboticsproceedings.org/rss21/p152.pdf" title="Download PDF" target="_blank">
      <i class="fa fa-file-pdf-o"></i><br>
      <span class="paper-menu-label">PDF</span>
    </a>
  </div>
</div>

### Paper ID 152
{: style="margin-top: 10px; text-align: center;" }

### [Session 16. Manipulation III]({{ site.baseurl }}/program/papersession?session=16.%20Manipulation%20III)
{: style="text-align: center;" }

<b style="color: black;">Abstract: </b>Developing robust and general-purpose manipulation policies is a key goal in robotics. To achieve effective generalization, it is essential to construct comprehensive datasets that encompass a large number of demonstration trajectories and diverse tasks. Unlike vision or language data, which can be sourced from the internet, robotic datasets require detailed observations and manipulation actions, necessitating significant investments in both hardware-software infrastructure and human labor. While existing works have focused on assembling various individual robot datasets, there is still a lack of a unified data collection standard and insufficient high-quality data across diverse tasks, scenarios, and robot types. In this paper, we introduce RoboMIND (Multi-embodiment Intelligence Normative Data for Robot Manipulation), a dataset containing 107k demonstration trajectories across 479 diverse tasks involving 96 object classes. RoboMIND is collected through human teleoperation and encompasses comprehensive robotic-related information, including multi-view observations, proprioceptive robot state information, and linguistic task descriptions. To ensure dataset consistency and reliability for imitation learning, RoboMIND is built on a unified data collection platform and standardized protocol, covering four distinct robotic embodiments: the Franka Emika Panda, the UR-5e, the AgileX dual-arm robot, and a humanoid robot with dual dexterous hands. Our dataset also includes 5k real-world failure demonstrations, each accompanied by detailed causes, enabling failure reflection and correction during policy learning. Additionally, we create a digital twin environment in the Isaac Sim simulator, replicating the real-world tasks and assets, which facilitates the low-cost collection of additional training data and enables efficient evaluation.  To demonstrate the quality and diversity of our dataset, we conducted extensive experiments using various Imitation Learning methods for single task setting and state-of-the-art Vision-Language-Action (VLA) models for multi-task scenarios. By leveraging  RoboMIND, the VLA models achieved high manipulation success rates and demonstrated strong generalization capabilities.
{: style="color:gray; font-size: 120%; text-align: justified;" }

<div class="paper-menu">
  <div class="paper-menu-inner">
    <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/program/papers/151/" title="Previous Paper">
            <div class="paper-menu-icon">
                <i class="fa fa-chevron-left"></i><br>
                <span class="paper-menu-label">Back</span>
            </div>
        </a>
    <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/program/papers" title="All Papers">
      <div class="paper-menu-icon">
        <i class="fa fa-list"></i><br>
        <span class="paper-menu-label">Papers</span>
      </div>
    </a>
    <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/program/papers/153/" title="Next Paper">
            <div class="paper-menu-icon">
                <i class="fa fa-chevron-right"></i><br>
                <span class="paper-menu-label">Next</span>
            </div>
        </a>
  </div>
</div>
