---
layout: paper
title: "Boxi: Design Decisions in the Context of Algorithmic Performance for Robotics"
invisible: true
prev_id: "S14.3"
next_id: "S14.5"
---
<div class="paper-authors">
  <div class="paper-author-box">
    <div class="paper-author-name">Jonas Frey, Turcan Tuna, Lanke Frank Tarimo Fu, Cedric Weibel, Katharine Patterson, Benjamin Krummenacher, Matthias Müller, Julian Nubert, Maurice Fallon, Cesar Cadena, Marco Hutter</div>
    <div class="paper-author-uni"></div>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="paper-pdf-modern">
  <div class="paper-menu-icon">
    <a href="https://www.roboticsproceedings.org/rss25/p093.pdf" title="Download PDF" target="_blank">
      <i class="fa fa-file-pdf-o"></i><br>
      <span class="paper-menu-label">PDF</span>
    </a>
  </div>
</div>

### Paper ID S14.4
{: style="margin-top: 10px; text-align: center;" }

### [Session 14. Robot Design]({{ site.baseurl }}/program/papersession?session=14.%20Robot%20Design)
{: style="text-align: center;" }

<b style="color: black;">Abstract: </b>Achieving robust autonomy in mobile robots operating in complex, unstructured environments requires a multimodal sensor suite capable of capturing diverse and complementary information. However, designing such a sensor suite involves multiple critical design decisions, such as sensor selection, component placement, thermal and power limitations, compute requirements, networking, synchronization, and calibration. While the importance of these key aspects is widely recognized, they are often overlooked in academia or retained as proprietary knowledge within large corporations. To improve this situation, we present *Boxi*, a tightly integrated sensor payload which enables robust autonomy of robots in the wild. This paper discusses the impact of payload design decisions made to optimize algorithmic performance for downstream tasks, specifically focusing on state estimation and mapping. *Boxi* is equipped with a variety of sensors: two spinning LiDARs, 10 RGB cameras including high-dynamic range, global shutter, and rolling shutter models, an RGB-D camera, 7 inertial measurement units (IMUs) of varying precision, and a dual antenna RTK GPS system. Our analysis shows that time-synchronization, calibration, and sensor modality have a crucial impact on the state estimation performance. We frame this analysis within the context of cost considerations and environment-specific challenges. We also present a mobile sensor suite 'cookbook' to serve as a comprehensive guideline, outlining generalizable key design considerations and lessons learned during the development of *Boxi*. Finally, we demonstrate the versatility of *Boxi* being used in a variety of applications in real-world scenarios contributing to robust autonomy.
{: style="color:gray; font-size: 120%; text-align: justified;" }

<div class="paper-menu">
  <div class="paper-menu-inner">
    <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/program/papers/S14.3/" title="Previous Paper">
            <div class="paper-menu-icon">
                <i class="fa fa-chevron-left"></i><br>
                <span class="paper-menu-label">Back</span>
            </div>
        </a>
    <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/program/papers" title="All Papers">
      <div class="paper-menu-icon">
        <i class="fa fa-list"></i><br>
        <span class="paper-menu-label">All Papers</span>
      </div>
    </a>
    <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/program/papers/S14.5/" title="Next Paper">
            <div class="paper-menu-icon">
                <i class="fa fa-chevron-right"></i><br>
                <span class="paper-menu-label">Next</span>
            </div>
        </a>
  </div>
</div>
