---
layout: paper
title: "Enhancing Autonomous Driving Systems with On-Board Deployed Large Language Models"
invisible: true
prev_id: "S15.4"
next_id: "S15.6"
---
<div class="paper-authors">
  <div class="paper-author-box">
    <div class="paper-author-name">Nicolas Baumann, Cheng Hu, Paviththiren Sivasothilingam, Haotong Qin, Lei Xie, Michele Magno, Luca Benini</div>
    <div class="paper-author-uni"></div>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="paper-pdf-modern">
  <div class="paper-menu-icon">
    <a href="https://www.roboticsproceedings.org/rss25/p144.pdf" title="Download PDF" target="_blank">
      <i class="fa fa-file-pdf-o"></i><br>
      <span class="paper-menu-label">PDF</span>
    </a>
  </div>
</div>

### Paper ID S15.5
{: style="margin-top: 10px; text-align: center;" }

### [Session 15. Navigation]({{ site.baseurl }}/program/papersession?session=15.%20Navigation)
{: style="text-align: center;" }

<b style="color: black;">Abstract: </b>Neural Networks (NNs) trained through supervised learning, struggle with managing edge-case scenarios common in real-world driving due to the intractability of exhaustive datasets covering all edge-cases, making knowledge-driven approaches,  akin to how humans intuitively detect unexpected driving behavior, a suitable complement to data-driven methods. This work proposes a hybrid architecture combining low- level Model Predictive Controller (MPC) with locally deployed Large Language Models (LLMs) to enhance decision-making and Human Machine Interaction (HMI). The DecisionxLLM module evaluates robotic state information against natural language instructions to ensure adherence to desired driving behavior. The MPCxLLM module then adjusts MPC parameters based on LLM-generated insights, achieving control adaptability while preserving the safety and constraint guarantees of traditional MPC systems. Further, to enable efficient on-board deployment and to eliminate dependency on cloud connectivity, we shift processing to the on-board computing platform: We propose an approach that exploits Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), Low Rank Adaptation (LoRA) fine-tuning, and quantization. Experimental results demonstrate that these enhancements yield significant improvements in reasoning accuracy by up to 10.45%, control adaptability by as much as 52.2%, and up to 10.5× increase in computational efficiency (tokens/s), validating the proposed framework’s practicality for real-time deployment even on down- scaled robotic platforms. This work bridges high-level decision- making with low-level control adaptability, offering a sinergistic  framework for knowledge-driven and adaptive Autonomous Driving Systems (ADS).
{: style="color:gray; font-size: 120%; text-align: justified;" }

<div class="paper-menu">
  <div class="paper-menu-inner">
    <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/program/papers/S15.4/" title="Previous Paper">
            <div class="paper-menu-icon">
                <i class="fa fa-chevron-left"></i><br>
                <span class="paper-menu-label">Back</span>
            </div>
        </a>
    <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/program/papers" title="All Papers">
      <div class="paper-menu-icon">
        <i class="fa fa-list"></i><br>
        <span class="paper-menu-label">All Papers</span>
      </div>
    </a>
    <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/program/papers/S15.6/" title="Next Paper">
            <div class="paper-menu-icon">
                <i class="fa fa-chevron-right"></i><br>
                <span class="paper-menu-label">Next</span>
            </div>
        </a>
  </div>
</div>
