---
layout: paper
title: "RAPID: Robust and Agile Planner Using Inverse Reinforcement Learning for Vision-Based Drone Navigation"
invisible: true
prev_id: "S15.6"
next_id: "S15.8"
---
<div class="paper-authors">
  <div class="paper-author-box">
    <div class="paper-author-name">Minwoo Kim, Geunsik Bae, Jinwoo Lee, Woojae Shin, Changseung Kim, Myongyol Choi, Heejung Shin, Hyongdong Oh</div>
    <div class="paper-author-uni"></div>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="paper-pdf-modern">
  <div class="paper-menu-icon">
    <a href="https://www.roboticsproceedings.org/rss25/p163.pdf" title="Download PDF" target="_blank">
      <i class="fa fa-file-pdf-o"></i><br>
      <span class="paper-menu-label">PDF</span>
    </a>
  </div>
</div>

### Paper ID S15.7
{: style="margin-top: 10px; text-align: center;" }

### [Session 15. Navigation]({{ site.baseurl }}/program/papersession?session=15.%20Navigation)
{: style="text-align: center;" }

<b style="color: black;">Abstract: </b>This paper introduces a learning-based visual planner for agile drone flight in cluttered environments. The proposed planner generates collision-free waypoints in milliseconds, enabling drones to perform agile maneuvers in complex environments without building separate perception, mapping, and planning modules. Learning-based methods, such as behavior cloning (BC) and reinforcement learning (RL), demonstrate promising performance in visual navigation but still face inherent limitations. BC is susceptible to compounding errors due to limited expert imitation, while RL struggles with reward function design and sample inefficiency. To address these limitations, this paper proposes an inverse reinforcement learning (IRL)-based framework for high-speed visual navigation. By leveraging IRL, it is possible to reduce the number of interactions with simulation environments and improve scalability in high-dimensional spaces while maintaining the robustness characteristic of RL policies. An expert dataset is collected using a motion primitive-based path planning algorithm in various environments such as narrow gaps, cubes, spheres, and trees, ensuring comprehensive coverage of diverse scenarios. While the proposed method is trained in a simulation environment only, it can be directly applied to real-world scenarios without additional training or tuning. The performance of the proposed method is validated in both simulation and real-world environments, including forests and various structures. The trained policy achieves an average speed of 7 m/s and a maximum speed of 8.8 m/s in real flight experiments. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work to successfully apply an IRL framework for high-speed visual navigation of drones.
{: style="color:gray; font-size: 120%; text-align: justified;" }

<div class="paper-menu">
  <div class="paper-menu-inner">
    <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/program/papers/S15.6/" title="Previous Paper">
            <div class="paper-menu-icon">
                <i class="fa fa-chevron-left"></i><br>
                <span class="paper-menu-label">Back</span>
            </div>
        </a>
    <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/program/papers" title="All Papers">
      <div class="paper-menu-icon">
        <i class="fa fa-list"></i><br>
        <span class="paper-menu-label">All Papers</span>
      </div>
    </a>
    <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/program/papers/S15.8/" title="Next Paper">
            <div class="paper-menu-icon">
                <i class="fa fa-chevron-right"></i><br>
                <span class="paper-menu-label">Next</span>
            </div>
        </a>
  </div>
</div>
